so yes
nick goodrum been working here at
american eagle for about 10 years
um and really the goal of this
presentation
is about really the two hats that i wear
right
so accessibility and front-end
development and so
developers uh you know there's all kinds
of issues that we can do
that we create uh that impact end users
um
really at the company we used to be more
reactive and kind of oh if you want to
take care of accessibility we'll do it
we switch to being much more proactive
because really every website
is important every website has potential
of creating barriers
for people with disabilities that just
want to enjoy everyday life
nick i'm sorry i don't think your screen
is shared oh yeah if you could double
check that
oh sorry about that well easy enough
change slides anyway so there we go
there we go
technology right uh fun with all the
zoom calls that we're doing
um so yes this is more aimed towards
developers but it's actually really
everyone
as a whole so site owners site managers
what it is is you know i've been
assessing looking at code for a long
time
and i kept going you know why are there
are there issues why are there still
problems
um you know why are we still you know
having difficulties creating good end
user experiences
and so a lot of times it's probably you
know not with bad intentions it's
usually with good intentions but
as developers we don't really know any
better
so where to start
so we got a nice image of kind of that
golden compass
pointing north on a nice wooden table
there nice dark wooden table
so we can grab our compasses and let's
let's dive in let's actually kind of
take a look
into the wordpress space and how we can
navigate accessibility in it
so the wordpress starting lineup
that's really where you want to start um
this is really aimed towards more
beginners people that have been doing
this for a long time
you're probably well aware of this but
really there's two areas you want to be
aware of
when you start working inside of
wordpress so one
you've got wordpress alone in the themes
area you've got
over close to 4 000 themes but
really you want to take a look for the
ones that are accessibility ready
um because really we only have 107 and
then
of course the accessibility handbook so
let's take a look
accessibility ready themes uh multiple
people probably brought it up so far and
so if you've been a marathon runner
uh through this whole entire you know
almost 24 hours
of you know presentations you probably
heard this
but it's important to be aware that
these take time to audit and review uh
joe and the team
have been working through these trying
to get as many as possible
but it takes time because we want to do
due diligence uh and it should also be
noted that of course
um until it's it's kind of almost you
know themes are in a sense
almost kind of like hanging clothes
right um you won't know if it's actually
truly
the right fit and the right kind of
accessibility until
after you actually put in yourself right
and put in the content and if you're
aiming to make a theme
these slides are available so there's
links throughout the whole entire area
feel free to go and you can reference
them and jump to them um
is you know there's also patterns right
you know helpful tools
if you're starting to actually make
these things
so the handbook so uh picture here of
course is going over
all the chapters that's inside of it
right you've got best practices
development best practices content best
practices tools
all kinds of items so you have to ask
yourself you know as a developer
uh as a site owner um you know do i
understand what wikkeg is do i
understand what the poor methods
that were the things you're looking for
perceivable aspects like that
hey there's a quick little reference
guide for that unsure about what
why arya guidelines are what the html
semantics for roles
well hey starting point right here too
um you know do you need to be able to
send announcements how do you do that
you know it covers even you know um
code of wp you know ally.speak um
codebases that you know can help guide
you on how to fill these things out
and then of course just tools right
build tools how do i put this into my
cli
you know how do i do it and to build
tools all kinds of aspects
so when we're talking about wordpress
and navigating it we should also be able
to know a map
of where the current state is um
and so we're going to look into you know
what aspects of wordpress
are needing to be talked about so of
course they're going to navigate it kind
of like
navigating this person with their finger
going over i think it's the downtown los
angeles
so i'm going to talk of course about
page editors
and so some of you might be groaning
some of you might know what we're going
to talk about
i know it's credited a little bit of
divisiveness but gutenberg
so gutenberg is moving forward uh
automatic
and uh the accessibility team have been
working for
actually multiple years now trying to
improve and better create
a usable experience the end goals i can
see the benefits right trying to create
an ecosystem where you can
create blocks move things around to have
a page editor kind of like wix and
aspects like that
that you know if you think about
wordpress for me the beginning
was just kind of a blocking platform and
now it's used to create all kinds of
websites
but execution is key right so
of course uh needed to have an audit
needed to have part of the practices so
10 in io did the review
wp campus i'm not going to rehash the
whole entire history
but it's a good sign that you know we've
gotten through two-thirds of the issues
now of course
you guys change there's going to be
regression issues it's an ongoing aspect
but joe dalson everyone has been trying
to really
resolve this uh now there's still
problems right
uh so that's why classic editor is
probably one of the most popular plugins
um and it's because yeah things like
video captions you still
need it um now the classic editor
plug-in
should be noted that right now it's
supported only really through the
2021 through the end of 2021. now that
might change right because this is
really about
gutenberg should be in a stable state
should be accessible should be
accounting for all these things
by that time so
it gets a lot of flack but you know
actually what about other page builders
right well why don't we use the other
ones
instead of gutenberg well
unfortunately the alternatives have pain
points as well um
this is no means trying to bash on these
particular ones i'm not
you know beaver builder divi elementor
they're
you know they have some good aspects to
it but really
you know they're most commonly used
they're high up there and they also have
similar issues so
a tag uh you know really about being
able to easily traverse
so people with disabilities can create
content they have problems with this as
well
um beaver builder is trying to improve
you know but it takes time
and it's been years um and so you know
it's nice that there's a change of pace
and and really focusing on it but
they still have problems then of course
divi
other people have even built plug-ins to
fix some of the front-end issues of
what's being created
uh but campus press built that and um
it still has problems too right because
there's a lot of work involved if you
start with you know sometimes not the
right basis
and then elementor you know they're also
advocating about accessibility but
uh it also has some work to do um
so you can even take a look you've got
github aspects that are pointing out
multiple issues and it's because yeah
it's not one and done
and there's always room for improvement
okay so nick you're not really making it
sound
amazing maybe maybe there's plugins
maybe maybe there's something to fix
that
um but really all page builder tools
all plug-ins they all still need work uh
so we've got a nice background here
of uh road in japan pretty much in front
of a family mart
i miss convenience food from japan
and pretty much people digging up and
and doing maintenance right
because it still needs work so i
mentioned plugins okay this is probably
a better state right
so if we've got page builders creating a
front-end code that's having issues
maybe there's um some one magic button
that fixes everything um and so
really uh i see people submitting and
people talking about it
accessibility overlays this has kind of
become a popular thing
more recently and so
i asked yes you know ask yourselves what
are your expectations for this overlay
what are your expectations in putting
these plug-ins
on your site um because really
accessibility should not be an
afterthought so if it's hey as
developers we're just going to just
plow ahead keep making code and then
okay well i'll just throw in a tool at
the end that's supposed to fix
everything
well they kind of don't really fix
if you really look at it there's so much
inside the spec that an automated tool
fixing everything is not not really
uh possible uh then you might say okay
well
it's also progressive enhancement uh
helping out people that might need a
grey skill or high contrast or
you know some negative contrast to some
options right
underlines now again if you're making a
good website the links should already be
recognizable so
why add the link underline aspect
increase font decrease font if you've
actually done
a pretty decent job but it should also
already be quite large
in fonts the design era of like 2000s
with
nine point font um aren't really there
anymore
but think about it this way so if
someone with a disability
needs to have high contrast or needs to
have
a certain font size those kinds of
things they're probably
already going to have some tool some
plug-in some software
installed on their machine so that they
can do this for every website not just
your website
so some of these tools end up being a
little bit redundant
now it's not that you really shouldn't
use it at all and there's
no value there could be some people that
still somehow get benefit from it so
that's where i kind of go what are your
expectations um and there's also some
within the
you know wordpress space that like the
wp x
accessibility one from joe dawson yeah
that has a little bit of overlays but
it's also got snuck in
some good aspects right putting making
sure uh title tags
or attributes are kind of removed if
they're not really needed make sure skip
navigation is inserted for you
so they're putting stuff inside the php
space to actually make it a little bit
um better so the idea though is
you know what is the goal if it's for a
quick fix
there's many voices out there in the
community really expressing that
that's really not the best approach uh
you've got you know steve faulkner
you've got even
this article here from laney feingold
really going into
how all of the issues that are still
around and there are still
some legal battles for sites that have
these kinds of overlay tools
so are there good ones yes there are
good plugins out there
um now is this a huge list no and is it
exhaustive
no as well um but yes like i said wp
accessibility plugin that's
that's you know a good starting point um
contact form seven it's
actually not that bad of a starting
point for accessibility but some of the
defaults may sometimes need some help
and so that's why
there's a tool for that uh gravity forms
has some issues so hey we're going to
patch that and fix that
of course there's accessible twitter
feeds this is also a lot of stuff that's
also in the handbook as well so if you
want to know some good starting points
here it is
um video players there's also able
player as a plug-in april player's
really nice one
uh that really gives a lot of options
for different kinds of disabilities
now of course you have to make sure your
content is also available that way
so i didn't list a lot of options here
and i've so far kind of pointed out
everything has some problems so really
that's
why it's all on us as developers site
owners
site managers it's on us to make sure we
do our due diligence we can't wait until
qc
comes in we can't wait until the end
user has to
complain or or try and access the
content
um so we've got nice cartography tools
on a workbench
uh going over maps and really we're
going to use those cryptography tools
there's
the tools for ourselves of how are we
going to
test our sites so test test test
and vet now you might be thinking i
don't know how to test or vent
well at the very least you can still do
your part and
look into the history okay what let's go
into the github
as devs we probably don't feel too
concerned i'm just jumping in and
looking at the issue trackers
um we've been kind of showed here right
we have elementors
and again no dig at them but there's you
know still 21 issues still open
um still issues uh with maybe some
keyboard accessibility
uh now there's 64 closed which is great
now
for some plug-ins some tools that might
not get enough traction to have a lot of
people
diving into the accessibility so it's
also important to check
is there even any statement at all so if
it's silence
about accessibility that's probably a
bad sign that
they probably aren't thinking about it
so
you know even uh beaver builder for
example as
has statements about it trying to work
towards it right
and then of course uh search for reviews
maybe you're still kind of unsure
there's a lot of specialists there's a
lot of people all the presenters to date
i mean there's plenty of people that are
trying to help educate and and
grow uh knowledge on maybe some pain
points or in some growth areas
so you know you even have um
oh i didn't actually have that one open
um
but you have uh like a bright clear web
um you've got
multiple places that are actually
testing out uh sometimes even end users
that are saying
hey i can't actually use this but really
at the end of the day
it's about actually really testing the
demos testing
the the code testing it on a sandbox
testing it yourself
um you know even graham earlier if
you've been watching all these streams
is you know
you need to know how to tab use a
keyboard
don't just assume it's a mouse
so we need to test right we need to test
with different kinds of tools
so a lot of people go to automated tools
right so we've got
totally wave axe arc toolkit these are
extensions you can install
into your browser to be able to say okay
well quick assessment
then you got pali that's if you want to
create dashboards
for yourself and do it through against
cli build tools
then you've got 10 and i o site improve
these types of
hey they've already created a dashboard
they've already created a system
that's crawling your site and looking
through everything and there's
plenty more tools available and out
there um
but these are great starting points now
everyone's throwing out different
amounts um but in general automated
tools can only catch so much maybe
25 to 50 percent of even the wicked
space
um so really manual testing
is key um because really
uh how would you know if a multi-step
checkout process with multiple tabs
uh with an automated tool needs to fill
out all the form fields fill that out
some of them incorrectly
hit submit find where the errors are and
make sure that they're properly tied
that's not that easy to achieve without
a lot of customization
with automated tools same thing is is
there an automated
tool to run through to confirm all your
captions are well set up inside of your
videos
no it takes humans uh that's why we even
have humans writing closed captions
so i think one of the main things that i
find with devs
you know why why are there so many gaps
why do i see arya hidden on a whole
bunch of things that need to be read why
why why are these mistakes that are
coming through
and it's because as humans we have a
hard time stepping
out of our own shoes we're used to our
normal everyday life
some people are you know have sight
and do cater everything to sight users
uh and so really it's about picking up
these tools
um the ones that i've kind of listed
here nvda lip
serve voice over talkback all of them
are actually
um to a degree free to use uh nvda but
of course we love donations
but so if you're on windows you need a
screen reader install it
don't be afraid to just close your eyes
and try and experience what it's like
going through your website or just
regular websites and you'll see
the extreme pain points that many sites
provide
i mentioned lip surf so dragon
is another you know voice dictation
software generally hasn't been that
great for web
web traversal and so lipsurf is kind of
another alternative
uh that's also free it's an extension
that's available for chrome that also
has some
commands to be able to reverse
everything if you have a
mobile device very much almost i think
everyone
to a degree has um now
you can use voiceover voice control
through mac os
and ios you got talkback and voice
access on android for the accessibility
suite
so they're already built in so you
already have options
so go into your settings turn them on
see what that experience is like
because not everyone's going to be your
end users are not going to be
pro screen reader users there's going to
be people that just i i needed to you
know
get through the day so i think that's
one of the key things
is if i were to say stress anything
about
today or anything is pick up one of
these software tools and there's other
assistive technology of course as well
and and try it out and that will kind of
show you the pain points
and of what you're building
so because what i'm getting at is you
know as you saw there's many plugins
that
and page tools that all have issues
there's even ones that are
promoting accessibility that have
problems
so us as developers as site owners as
site managers
we're going to need to patch things
we're going to need to fix things
so you know you've got here a nice kind
of beating up road with potholes
and definitely needs a paving right so
diy repairs are needed so let's actually
go into some of these right what what
could we do
to improve this experience
so this is where we're gonna get more
debi site
so situations that i feel i often see
and reviewing people's code and
everything is that are missed
so we've got sticky headers right
everyone loves sticky editors
um it's still kind of a focused
interface really for
sighted mouse users or touch users um
but it's not that it's it's a bad
practice per se
the problem is is that there are people
but we are all getting older right
and eyesight unfortunately doesn't
really
last forever um and so
people need to zoom increase the the
screen size um so that they can actually
magnify so they can actually read
content
so let's take a look at an example right
so let's actually change our zoom
so we're at 100
and let's get up to 200
and let's get up to 400
and what is this experience for someone
uh that needs to zoom in order to read
content now again this is with
navigation open
but the amount of space on a 1280 by
1024 screen
this is what's simulating here um
when you zoom in at 400 percent that's
really not ending up that
tall you don't really have enough real
estate space it's actually shorter than
most phones so sticky here
where it's following you around and then
you have navigation and that's open
how easily can i read
contact okay the experience is tough
because now we have also a sticky
pricing area and again this is
not to i see this on many many sites so
this is not just
something with divi
so how do we account for that so you can
actually use media
media queries with min heights many
people are aware of min widths right
but you can actually do min heights so
you could do something along the lines
of
min height is 30 em right uh so m's
uh versus pixels to account for a little
bit uh
with different font choices and font
sizes people might use within their
browser
um and so maybe if you're tall enough
then
let's have sticky and otherwise just
have it be normal
modal dialogues uh that's very very very
very common
to do it wrong because it's very easy to
do it wrong
it requires a lot about focus management
being able to say as soon as i toggle
something
i need to move into that area and i need
to be contained within that area
because the idea of a modal dialog is
that you need to complete this task
before you move on to something else
that's why you often have you know the
grayed out
areas of the page
but okay let's try me
okay something something popped up on
the screen uh are you under 18.
okay this is just a demo um and so i'll
tap through and you can see that
please know that
tapping through this the content is
actually the the user's focus is nowhere
inside this area
so as a screen reader user they may
never even know that something even
popped up as a keyboard user how do i
even get to this information
so then okay well i need to move focus
inside and then i need to be contained
with inside
because a screen reader user might not
know that they've left a dialogue and
now they've ended up in all there's
hotkeys to jump all over the page
uh and so if they're outside of it they
don't know how to complete the task
before
coming back in and then of course when
you escape it
you should set focus back to where you
were
so some promising aspects is uh there's
a new attribute a newer
attribute inert uh which doesn't have
perfect support yet
um so if you mix that with aria hidden
equals true and you apply that to pretty
much
everything behind your content modal
um that pretty much contains everyone
inside
because screen readers have really no
other content to really interact with
same thing with keyboards
and something to note in safari uh for
voiceover this bugs across
all of these uh operating systems and uh
browsers right
so they actually have an issue where
focus doesn't actually move inside
uh if you actually have the modal
display none
and then you show it uh if it just pops
in that's a little bit different
so use visibility hidden if you were to
actually hide this
uh and something you know i'm talking
about safari as well
in ios is that actually
accessible names you should have had an
accessible name to your button in the
first place but i see so many times
hamburger menus that pretty much
have no name and just visuals right the
three bars
um and those
um pretty much are always skipped by
voice over
um because they would never even know
exists you try and flick you try and tap
anything
uh and nothing really happens there's no
way of interacting with it
now there's plenty of other issues but
at least screen readers and desktop
might actually land on it
at least let you know that it's
clickable or if it's a link that might
actually just at least read the url
so what are some more situations often
missed um so we've got
what i call dividus um concerns for
you know anything interactive you see it
all the time
pagination for carousels you see buttons
that look like a button but really it's
just a div
and i see developers all the time that
go okay well i'll throw the div
and then i'm going to put a uh okay well
screen readers don't know it's a button
roll equals button all right but
keyboard users can't access it because
there's no tab index set
okay tab index equals zero um and then
on top of that they go okay well that
should fix everything because i have a
click binding
but the click binding doesn't get called
because the keyboards aren't
tied to it anymore so now you have to
add in uh
on enter on spacebar to actually trigger
your click events
or is that even really worth it you
could have just created
button type equals button the same
concerns happen with anchors
with no h reference uh they end up being
kind of just like a div
uh so same concerns happen so as
developers as site owners if you're
creating a button
or sorry a link and you have no real h
reference you're gonna like
i don't know where that would point to
you're probably wanting to create an
actual button
and i do net note type equals button
because
um it's a little thing but forms
actually if you hit enter inside of an
input field
will actually trigger the first submit
option
and that submit the default state of a
button is type equals
submit so it'll actually trigger that so
that's why
most of the buttons that i see that
toggle open do something
type equals button is something you'd
want to throw on there
uh and then carousels slideshows
um i see it all the time you know it's
automatic rotation
rotating through items and there's even
tools where it's okay well
you set focus when you set focus pause
it or
when you hover over it pause it and yeah
for digesting content great uh but about
someone with maybe adhd or someone that
has
get sick from motion they have no way of
turning it off or
i guess they just have to stare down a
carousel for the rest of the time of
being on that page
and that's not really enjoyable at all
so a pause button is absolutely
necessary in order for it to be
really accessible or really don't even
have automatic rotation that would be
great
um so also get into some maybe aria
overlooked items
already expanded is really the base of
any toggle
uh when you want to open and close it
because
so a screen reader to kind of give you
an idea of what that experience is like
so sighted users
sites cater to you all the time let's
say i
i click on a features or hover over a
feature um
and it it shows something right sites
have been designed to account
for uh sighted users for for a long long
time
so i get immediate feedback provided to
me
that oh okay well editor design all
these things have been shown
but as a as a screen reader user none of
that's actually happening for you
because
the software itself think of it as a
pinhole view you're only seeing a little
one piece at a time um so
when you're on a button when you're on
an area all that's being announced is
just that
area now there are tools within
aria to help with that so
uh focus management helps aria live
helps
and some of these attributes like aria
expanded and what will happen is
when you first land on that button and
you you know click
um you land on it it'll say expanded
collapsed one of those two options okay
i get immediate feedback
on the area around me even though i'm
just only
on one button when you actually press it
you get immediate feedback because
here's the trick about buttons and
um yeah generally buttons for screen
readers
is that as a sighted user if you pressed
on a link
and nothing happened how long would you
wait
how long before you go did it work
uh is it thinking is there something
wrong
that's pretty much what you actually
have to deal with as a screen reader
user on
every single button because you press it
and nothing's announced
if you don't use the aria live if you
don't do focus management if you don't
do these attributes like already
expanded
how long do i wait did it work i don't
know
so our expanding gives that opportunity
to immediately say
expand it and let users know oh okay
this worked and i can continue
along in my traversal um
aria labels um aria labels are great and
in presentation so far there's even been
references to them how to do it
just understand it's a double-edged
sword uh
if you overwrite all of your links with
let's say oh i'm going to benefit people
and i'm going to say opens in a new
window
on every single link and i'm going to do
it as an aria label well the danger of
our label is that
actually all of its children
inside that anchor inside that button
are actually removed and not really
accessible anymore
and only the label itself is going to be
announced to screen reader users
so you pretty much negated any visual
text
any information and only supplied what's
in that label
so if all you had was opens in a new
window you've just ended up in a site
with a whole bunch of links that just
say open in a new window which is not
helpful
so you have to front load and actually
include all of that visual text
for it to make sense this also impacts
voice dictation users so like i talked
about libserv
you know now the technology is changing
voiceover actually even puts in grid
view options so they can say like tap
10 um and a lot of opportunities to to
not have to rely
on the actual phrase of the button that
you're interacting with
but there's plenty that do and so if you
overwrite the accessible name there's a
large potential for voice users to not
even be able to access those buttons
another one you know is aria current
equals page true
uh i kind of point those out so if we
take a look at
um even w3c um to understand the
reference
we always create cited aspects to say
okay there's some visual indication of
what
page you're on right in navigation
sidebars all these things there's
usually
some class equals active and some
background color
um but screen reader users don't get
provided that information that
there's nothing visual for them uh so
that's where are your current equals
page now we'll announce something for
them and pagination maybe sometimes
they're not always going to different
pages
uh so then you also have audio current
equals true to actually announce
kind of hey this is the current one of
the set
uh and something that i don't think a
lot of devs realize is that
css display properties actually impact
the accessibility and the semantics of
of anything really i mean it's kind of
if you think about it
display none makes it so screen readers
and assistive technology keyboard users
no one can access it it's already
showing that display properties
impact uh the semantics and the
accessibility of
html and so
i think even you know adrian also went
over a nice little explanation it's a
good example of
okay well responsive tables right so if
you do display block display flex
on a table that loses all of its
semantic value
so these are the common things that i
started to see as i
analyze sites look through sites and
it's not exhaustive
there's plenty more out there there's a
lot of nuance here
um so you kind of go
wait a second he's pretty much spent the
whole entire time saying there's lots of
problems there's lots of issues
and it's all on me and i'm you know
scared and frightened about all this
but i'm actually not that pessimistic
about this i'm actually quite optimistic
because when i look at over the years
that there were plenty of people
announcing making a voice but
probably in the past five years i've
only seen a huge increase the number of
voices the number of devs the number of
companies
that are waking up and realizing
the accessibility needs um there's
if any time to jump into accessibility
now is a great time
um and so that's why i kind of say the
future still looks
it's very promising we have uh
so many voices out there so many
opportunities
uh joe dawson and the team putting
together information
uh gutenberg all of these areas are
still improving
and you can as well and you can be part
of that so that's why i kind of say
you know debs unite let's work together
and create a better future let's get out
of this you know image of the dark
tunnel
and into the brighter future that we can
help
so many people with disabilities and
improve
life for everyone
all right
questions all right thanks so much nick
i
can really tell how passionate and um
you know how much this is important to
you we do have
um some questions from the
viewers out here um so we have yeah we
have about 15 minutes
for for the q a session um
first question was do you recommend a
starter
um or accessibility ready theme all of
them have really good points i
i don't want to say like oh this has to
be the one it's still just i would say
go through them find ones that really
align with you
uh because they have been vetted they
have been reviewed uh of course there's
always room for improvement for any of
them but
you know um the main pain point is you
know
we've worked on many projects ourselves
in wordpress and a lot of times there is
that
page builder aspect where you know
there's even genesis frameworks aspects
like that where
they still don't have the page builder
that many clients at the end of the day
want to say i just want to drag and drop
i just want to put something in
and that's usually where the pain point
starts to come out so if you are just
creating more of a simple site
and you can just build it off of the
basic wordpress setup
any of those accessibility themes are
going to be beneficial to you and i
would say
take a look through those themes find
one that aligns with you and that's
probably a good starting point
awesome okay thank you next question
is why don't developers lock in
required accessibility items within
repository themes and plugins
for example requiring requiring alt text
on all image or video content added or
color contrast
etc so this is where it gets tricky
because it's it's a two-way street right
um it's not just devs it's also really
site ownership so content as a whole you
could say
everything needs an alt text but
actually it's not that simple because
there are times so let's say it's all
inside of an anchor right so you have
images
and text and a whole bunch of
information all inside of an anchor tag
well if the image is let's say it's a
product right and you're buying
men's gloves let's say and men's gloves
the picture is of men's gloves
maybe you could get into some poetic way
to describe them but to a degree
most people end up just going men's
gloves
so in that anchor now you've got alt
text that says men's gloves men's gloves
well it's men's gloves and then the
title of men's gloves that would be
inside that same anchor
so in that case you actually want to say
alt equals
blank or null in a sense and you would
actually still want that attribute
but you don't actually want it to be
explained uh
videos enforcing captions for everything
is not that simple and a lot of times
like let's say netflix for example when
having audio descriptions and
captions they went through some suits
themselves and
you know i think initially they're like
okay we have audio descriptions for
2 000 videos and you go yeah
great how many videos does netflix have
right so enforcing it stop because
content creators uh would you want to
say you can't launch
because you don't have it done yet
okay well how long will it take
now it should be built in it should be
best practices but it's hard to enforce
that
because it's really on the content side
um and there's sometimes nuances so
devs still would be great to enforce but
it still probably would be
you know you have to flag to say it's
allowed
um because even wicca expects says if
this is going to prevent a launch
that you don't have one video with
closed captions
that's not a reason to stop it's about a
due diligence plan and working towards
it
um now i would of course say yes it'd be
great to make sure
everything has that um but we also have
to be realists
um and i know that's not great but if
you think about buildings
accessibility of a building how often
does it get renovated
versus a website when's the last time
you updated a page probably
maybe even since 8am today
hopefully that helps answer yeah no i
think that was a
great answer and a really great question
so thank you
um let's see if there are additional
questions you can continue
to put them in the chat the next
question
for nick uh is can you suggest automated
workflow tools for pre-flight
accessibility checks and um are there
any that you would
recommend okay so you want to kind of
have build tools to kind of run through
and run against it
so that you could actually catch these
issues before you actually even go
live or go up into a production
environment um
and there's a lot out there acts and
these other tools you can actually build
it in
there's there's a lot out there it's
they all have the main thing i would say
you know i mentioned uh pally as well is
if you wanted to kind of create
dashboards and run through it and run
them against builds
again it'll only help you catch so much
so the main thing i would stress is that
it'll help you a little bit but there's
always going to be false positives
uh there's going to be aspects that are
going to be missed um so it
at least steps you in the right
direction
but it doesn't actually really solve
everything so that's where it's really
important
you look at your own code review it and
and make sure you
you know just even run through it with
the keyboard run through it with a
screen reader run through it with these
things
and help catch it before it even gets
bypasses
um a build tool to then go to a
live site
okay great i think yes diligence is key
testing is key as you've mentioned um
okay so we've got two more questions
here the next one is
um how would you rank the page builders
in relation
to accessibility page builders always
seem to be adding new features but is
one working faster or more diligently
to make their product better in this
area
um yeah
uh i would say you know we've switched
through a couple ourselves
um again beaver builder still had some
issues
see and we kind of switched over and
we've been working a bit with elementor
um but we still have to hack around it
to be honest uh
it's really if you know a system and you
know the structure and you know
you know the tools that are available at
the end of the day it kind of comes down
to okay well if you're used to those
it's about making sure you have the
javascript work around so the php
workarounds or the customizations
to fix it so that's why i kind of say
it's a lot of
patchwork and a lot of fixing potholes
um and it's hard to say because i see
times where they make improvements and
then they
regress um i see you know
advocacy and then i see things sitting
for for a couple of years
um because it all the people making it
right that
how many people are involved how much
time does it take i mean if you look at
it gutenberg
ran into the same situation right they
had to now go back through and start to
fix and resolve items
and there's still going to be issues
that come up once in a while it's never
one and done
unfortunately so i don't want to be
oh absolutely this one because i haven't
vetted every single one of them
i because that would be a lot of time on
myself as well uh so there could be
actually a really good one that caters
to you uh because you know it so well
okay great um okay we did get another
question so there's still two more
questions
um where do you where do you feel
developers can make the most positive
impact on accessibility um and then
they in parentheses it says type of
contribute feature or area
etc that's a good one
um like i said i think
in one way it is as as developers how
can we contribute
the first thing is getting into another
person's shoes
is to break outside of ourselves the
more all
developers of all developers and all you
know site owners pretty much said
i'm not going to just think about me a
lot of our design concepts and a lot of
our
development concepts a lot of the things
that we create
infinite scroll items all of the the
concepts that we create that go wow
probably would have had some more
thought into them uh on the impact that
it is
so that's why i kind of say you know the
thing that i would stress is you know if
you haven't picked up
any of these tools any excessive
technology dive into it for a day
close your eyes and just try and even
use a normal science that you do
every single day and could you actually
understand what it is
but if you were to contribute right um
really if you
if you've gotten really good at
accessibility and you know a fair amount
and you want to be able to contribute
be another voice by all means if you
found something block it
post it uh for these uh
you know open source tools contribute
right if
they've got problems and you've been
having to hack around it over and over
and over again
well here's the hack or here's uh
an approach to do it and try and you
know fork and try and uh you know
actually do uh pull requests
okay great i think that's very much in
the spirit of wordpress
accessibility day you know having having
so many experts together
so um the last question is i guess more
of a personal one um
they said the comment is i love your
approach on testing uh so what drew you
to
accessibility and and who has influenced
you
yeah no it's uh a lot of people have
close family you know they themselves
have
issues that they're dealing with um
mine's not
as fanciful uh like but it's really just
i think maybe being abroad maybe uh
living abroad teaches you
is just like again break outside of your
mold
and break outside of yourself and start
to empathize with others
and so yeah did i make mistakes early on
oh absolutely i made some bad code
decisions i thought oh this is cool
um but when i started to realize the
impact
it really started to get to me kind of
go like well a lot of these principles
are just basics
we've lost sight of the basics you know
accessibility principles for the web
have been around for
20 plus years and somewhere along the
lines we wanted to get cooler and cooler
and cooler
and it's not that you can't be cool you
can create really interesting interfaces
but you just have to remember the basics
the amount of times that i don't see a
button you know
again all these javascript frameworks um
it's not that the javascript framework
is bad as a whole you know react
angular all of them it's that the people
doing it
don't remember the basics
and so i guess that just deeply
influenced me where it's like oh i can
actually
make a difference and then the benefits
right the
plenty presenters so far have gone over
seo
user experience as a whole there's a lot
of alignment
um so when i first started on really
diving in i started you know people
would always ask is like
you know devil's advocate what why focus
on accessibility and
i could hear people presenting and
they're like because you should
right like well yeah uh but i think
you know that's not always so realistic
i it's
it's kind of sad in some ways that you
know you would think it should be that
easy
um so it got me really passionate kind
of going like how can i express
this to people so organizations clients
can finally realize the benefits
um and so generally if you need to
express something you know get buy-in
within your companies or client or
something is i
i always go with the selfish method um
you know it's
if you just scare them with legal
they'll do
just enough ounces of flair to to
get along get by um it's
hey did you know that you'd get benefits
of seo and they'd be like
seo that's much more important uh if you
kind of point out you know oh okay well
you know the amount of people with
disabilities that you could increase
right an e-com site you could increase
up to 20 percent the amount of users
uh banks hey stop thinking of it as uh
as individual you always talk about
wanting to be individuals wanting to be
you know about the people well you can
create marketing campaigns about how
you're about the people and you worked
hard to make the accessibility
so that usually then gets the buy-in to
then finally do the thing that i wanted
to do all along which is
make sure the sites are accessible
all right perfect thank you so much um
and
for everyone that asked questions thank
you those are great questions
um nick it's been a pleasure having you
and
um again thanks everyone for attending
this
session developers unite navigating
accessibility in wordpress